readme.md, before:

# 3D-LiDAR and panoramic camera 
<!-- based on reflectance intensity of the laser -->

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-BSD-blue.svg)](LICENSE)<br>
paper (available soon)
<!-- [[paper]](http://www.mdpi.com/journal/remotesensing)-->
## Dependencies
* Python >= 2.7.9
* [OpenCV](http://opencv.org/)
    - for macOS:<br> 
    ```sh
    brew install opencv3
    echo /usr/local/opt/opencv3/lib/python2.7/site-packages >> /usr/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/opencv3.pth
    ```
* [OpenGV](https://laurentkneip.github.io/opengv/page_installation.html)
    - for macOS:<br> 
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/mfxox/opengv
    cd opengv
    mkdir build && cd build && cmake .. && make && make install
    ```
* [Point Cloud Library (PCL)](http://pointclouds.org/)
    - for macOS:<br> 
    ```sh
    brew install pcl
    ```
* [PCL python bindings](<https://github.com/mfxox/python-pcl>)
    - for macOS:<br> 
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/mfxox/python-pcl
    cd python-pcl
    python setup.py install
    ```
* [MATLAB engine for Python](https://www.mathworks.com/help/matlab/matlab_external/install-the-matlab-engine-for-python.html): 
    - for macOS or Linux:<br> 
    ```sh
    cd "matlabroot/extern/engines/python"
    python setup.py install
    ```
    - MATLAB python is used for corner detection from panoramic images. The OpenCV backend is also available which can be set by the __backend__ parameter in ```config.yaml```, however, Opencv may fail to detect the corners. You can also use the example files (__output/img_corners__) of detected corners from the sample data for a try of calibration.
<!-- * Other python packages: pip install -r [requirements.txt](requirements.txt) -->


## Optional
<!-- * [MATLAB engine for Python](https://www.mathworks.com/help/matlab/matlab_external/install-the-matlab-engine-for-python.html): Corner detection from images with MATLAB
   - for macOS or Linux:<br> 
    ```sh
    cd "matlabroot/extern/engines/python"
    python setup.py install
    ``` -->
* [VTK](https://github.com/Kitware/VTK) >=7.0: 3D Visualization
    - for macOS:<br> 
    ```sh
    brew install vtk
    ```

## Usage
### Installation
```sh
git clone https://github.com/mfxox/ILCC
cd ILCC
python setup.py install
```


### Explanation of files
```config.py```: parameter settings <br>
<!-- ``` main.py```:  call other functions to process from the the corner detection of image and LiDAR to optimization for the final result-->
 ```img_corners_est.py```: estimate corners of chessboard from images with OpenCV or MATLAB<br>
```pcd_corners_est.py```: estimate corners of chessboard from the point cloud<br>
```LM_opt.py```: load corresponding 2D-3D corners, calculate initial values with the PnP method, refine the result with LM method
```utility.py```: utility functions for various of visualization


### Process data
1. Make a folder for example named as __DATA__ and make the image and point cloud folders __DATA/img__ and __DATA/pcd__ respectively. 
1. Put panoramic images into  __DATA/img__ and point cloud files into  __DATA/pcd__. The files should be named like 00XX.png or 00XX.csv.
1. Copy config.yaml to __DATA__ and modify config.yaml according to your situation.
1. ```cd DATA ```
1. Corner detection from images.<br>
    ```python
    from ILCC import img_corners_est
    img_corners_est.detect_img_corners()
    ```
    Coordinates of corners from images are saved to __DATA/output/img_corners__ with the filename *00XX_img_corners.txt* and images with marked corners are saved in the same folder with the file name *00XX_detected_corners.jpg* if _'output_img_with_dectected_corners'_ in ```config.yaml``` is set to __True__, as shown below.
    <div style="text-align: center">
    <img src="readme_files/0001_detected_corners.jpg" width = "50%" />
    <img src="readme_files/0001_detected_corners_zoom.jpg" width = "24.35%" />
    </div>
1. Corner detection from point clouds.<br>
    ```python
    from ILCC import pcd_corners_est
    pcd_corners_est.detect_pcd_corners()
    ```
    Coordinates of corners from point clouds are save to __output/pcd_seg__ with the filename *00XX_pcd_result.pkl*.  Segments of each point cloud are output to __/DATA/output/pcd_seg/00XX__.
1. Non-linear optimization for final extrinsic parameters.<br>
    ```python 
    from ILCC import LM_opt
    LM_opt.cal_ext_paras()
    ```
    The extrinsic calibration results are output in the end of the process and saved with the filename *YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS_calir_result.txt*.  Images of back-projected 3D corners with the calculated parameters are saved to __DATA/output__ if 'back_proj_corners' is set to **True**, as shown below.
    <div style="text-align: center">
    <img src="readme_files/0001_cal_backproj.jpg" width = "50%" />
    <img src="readme_files/0001_cal_backproj_zoom.jpg" width = "24.35%" />
    </div>
1. After the aforementioned process, utility module can be imported for visualizing various of results. <br>
    ```python
    from ILCC import utility
    utility.vis_back_proj(ind=1, img_style="edge", pcd_style="intens")
    utility.vis_back_proj(ind=1, img_style="orig", pcd_style="dis")
    ```
     The image (see below) with backprojected point cloud with the calculated extrinsic parameters will be showed and press "s" for saving. __img_style__ can be "edge" (edge extracted) or "orig" (original image) and __pcd_style__ can be "dis" (color by distance) or "intens" (color by intensity).
    <div style="text-align: center">
    <img src="readme_files/0001_edge_intens.jpg" width = "50%" />
    <img src="readme_files/0001_orig_dis.jpg" width = "50%" />
    </div>
    

1. For 3D visualization, [VTK](https://github.com/Kitware/VTK) >=7.0 is necessary. See the example below for how to use.


## Example
### Sample Data
The sample data and processing results of detected corners can be downloaded from [here](https://www.dropbox.com/s/m0ogerftqav0fyx/ILCC_sample_data_and_result.zip?dl=0) (181M). <br> These data are acquired with the [chessboard file](readme_files/chessboard_A0_0.75_6_8.pdf) which contains 6*8 patterns and the length of one grid is 7.5cm if it is printed by A0 size.
### Process
```sh
wget https://www.dropbox.com/s/m0ogerftqav0fyx/ILCC_sample_data_and_result.zip
unzip ILCC_sample_data_and_result.zip
cd ILCC_sample_data_and_result
```
copy ```config.yaml``` to __ILCC_sample_data_and_result__ folder.


### Visualization ([VTK](https://github.com/Kitware/VTK) >=7.0 is necessary)
* visualization of the point cloud from .csv file
```python
    from ILCC import utility
    utility.vis_csv_pcd(ind=1)
```
<div style="text-align: center">
<img src="readme_files/vis_csv.png" width = "50%" />
</div>

* visualization of the segmented results
```python
    from ILCC import utility
    utility.vis_segments(ind=1)
```
<div style="text-align: center">
<img src="readme_files/vis_seg.png" width = "50%" />
</div>

* visualization of the detected point cloud segment of the chessboard
```python
    from ILCC import utility
    utility.vis_segments_only_chessboard_color(ind=1)
```
<div style="text-align: center">
<img src="readme_files/vis_chessboard_only.png" width = "50%" />
</div>

* visualization of the detected point cloud segment of the chessboard and the estimated chessboard model
```python
    from ILCC import utility
    utility.vis_ested_pcd_corners(ind=1)
```
<div style="text-align: center">
<img src="readme_files/vis_est_marker.png" width = "50%" />
</div>

* visualization of all detected chessboards
```python
    import utility
    utility.vis_all_markers(utility.vis_all_markers(np.arange(1, 21).tolist())
```
<div style="text-align: center">
<img src="readme_files/all_frames_side.png" width = "60%" />
<img src="readme_files/all_frames_top.png" width = "65%" />
</div>

<!-- ## To do Integration for ROS -->

Commit message:

add to do list and detailed introduction

readme.md, after:

# 3D-LiDAR and panoramic camera 
<!-- based on reflectance intensity of the laser -->

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-BSD-blue.svg)](LICENSE) 
paper (available soon)<br>
<!-- [[paper]](http://www.mdpi.com/journal/remotesensing)-->
This is an python implementation for the fully automatic and accurate extrinsic calibration of an 3D-LiDAR and panoramic camera based on the laser's reflectance intensity. 
####The main features of this implementations are:<br>
1. automatic segmentation of the point cloud acquired by Velodyne 3D LiDAR
1. automatic detection of the chessboard 
1. automatic corners detection from the chessboard's point cloud
1. optimization for extrinsic calibration parameters
1. various of visualization for 3D point clouds with VTK python wrapper

## Dependencies
* Python >= 2.7.9
* [OpenCV](http://opencv.org/)
    - for macOS:<br> 
    ```sh
    brew install opencv3
    echo /usr/local/opt/opencv3/lib/python2.7/site-packages >> /usr/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/opencv3.pth
    ```
* [OpenGV](https://laurentkneip.github.io/opengv/page_installation.html)
    - for macOS:<br> 
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/mfxox/opengv
    cd opengv
    mkdir build && cd build && cmake .. && make && make install
    ```
* [Point Cloud Library (PCL)](http://pointclouds.org/)
    - for macOS:<br> 
    ```sh
    brew install pcl
    ```
* [PCL python bindings](<https://github.com/mfxox/python-pcl>)
    - for macOS:<br> 
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/mfxox/python-pcl
    cd python-pcl
    python setup.py install
    ```
* [MATLAB engine for Python](https://www.mathworks.com/help/matlab/matlab_external/install-the-matlab-engine-for-python.html): 
    - for macOS or Linux:<br> 
    ```sh
    cd "matlabroot/extern/engines/python"
    python setup.py install
    ```
    - MATLAB python is used for corner detection from panoramic images. The OpenCV backend is also available which can be set by the __backend__ parameter in ```config.yaml```, however, Opencv may fail to detect the corners. You can also use the example files (__output/img_corners__) of detected corners from the sample data for a try of calibration.
<!-- * Other python packages: pip install -r [requirements.txt](requirements.txt) -->


## Optional
<!-- * [MATLAB engine for Python](https://www.mathworks.com/help/matlab/matlab_external/install-the-matlab-engine-for-python.html): Corner detection from images with MATLAB
   - for macOS or Linux:<br> 
    ```sh
    cd "matlabroot/extern/engines/python"
    python setup.py install
    ``` -->
* [VTK](https://github.com/Kitware/VTK) >=7.0: 3D Visualization
    - for macOS:<br> 
    ```sh
    brew install vtk
    ```

## Usage
### Installation
```sh
git clone https://github.com/mfxox/ILCC
cd ILCC
python setup.py install
```


### Explanation of files
```config.py```: parameter settings <br>
<!-- ``` main.py```:  call other functions to process from the the corner detection of image and LiDAR to optimization for the final result-->
 ```img_corners_est.py```: estimate corners of chessboard from images with OpenCV or MATLAB<br>
```pcd_corners_est.py```: estimate corners of chessboard from the point cloud<br>
```LM_opt.py```: load corresponding 2D-3D corners, calculate initial values with the PnP method, refine the result with LM method
```utility.py```: utility functions for various of visualization


### Process data
1. Make a folder for example named as __DATA__ and make the image and point cloud folders __DATA/img__ and __DATA/pcd__ respectively. 
1. Put panoramic images into  __DATA/img__ and point cloud files into  __DATA/pcd__. The files should be named like 00XX.png or 00XX.csv.
1. Copy config.yaml to __DATA__ and modify config.yaml according to your situation.
1. ```cd DATA ```
1. Corner detection from images.<br>
    ```python
    from ILCC import img_corners_est
    img_corners_est.detect_img_corners()
    ```
    Coordinates of corners from images are saved to __DATA/output/img_corners__ with the filename *00XX_img_corners.txt* and images with marked corners are saved in the same folder with the file name *00XX_detected_corners.jpg* if _'output_img_with_dectected_corners'_ in ```config.yaml``` is set to __True__, as shown below.
    <div style="text-align: center">
    <img src="readme_files/0001_detected_corners.jpg" width = "50%" />
    <img src="readme_files/0001_detected_corners_zoom.jpg" width = "24.35%" />
    </div>
1. Corner detection from point clouds.<br>
    ```python
    from ILCC import pcd_corners_est
    pcd_corners_est.detect_pcd_corners()
    ```
    Coordinates of corners from point clouds are save to __output/pcd_seg__ with the filename *00XX_pcd_result.pkl*.  Segments of each point cloud are output to __/DATA/output/pcd_seg/00XX__.
1. Non-linear optimization for final extrinsic parameters.<br>
    ```python 
    from ILCC import LM_opt
    LM_opt.cal_ext_paras()
    ```
    The extrinsic calibration results are output in the end of the process and saved with the filename *YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS_calir_result.txt*.  Images of back-projected 3D corners with the calculated parameters are saved to __DATA/output__ if 'back_proj_corners' is set to **True**, as shown below.
    <div style="text-align: center">
    <img src="readme_files/0001_cal_backproj.jpg" width = "50%" />
    <img src="readme_files/0001_cal_backproj_zoom.jpg" width = "24.35%" />
    </div>
1. After the aforementioned process, utility module can be imported for visualizing various of results. <br>
    ```python
    from ILCC import utility
    utility.vis_back_proj(ind=1, img_style="edge", pcd_style="intens")
    utility.vis_back_proj(ind=1, img_style="orig", pcd_style="dis")
    ```
     The image (see below) with backprojected point cloud with the calculated extrinsic parameters will be showed and press "s" for saving. __img_style__ can be "edge" (edge extracted) or "orig" (original image) and __pcd_style__ can be "dis" (color by distance) or "intens" (color by intensity).
    <div style="text-align: center">
    <img src="readme_files/0001_edge_intens.jpg" width = "50%" />
    <img src="readme_files/0001_orig_dis.jpg" width = "50%" />
    </div>
    

1. For 3D visualization, [VTK](https://github.com/Kitware/VTK) >=7.0 is necessary. See the example below for how to use.


## Example
### Sample Data
The sample data and processing results of detected corners can be downloaded from [here](https://www.dropbox.com/s/m0ogerftqav0fyx/ILCC_sample_data_and_result.zip?dl=0) (181M). <br> These data are acquired with the [chessboard file](readme_files/chessboard_A0_0.75_6_8.pdf) which contains 6*8 patterns and the length of one grid is 7.5cm if it is printed by A0 size.
### Process
```sh
wget https://www.dropbox.com/s/m0ogerftqav0fyx/ILCC_sample_data_and_result.zip
unzip ILCC_sample_data_and_result.zip
cd ILCC_sample_data_and_result
```
copy ```config.yaml``` to __ILCC_sample_data_and_result__ folder.


### Visualization ([VTK](https://github.com/Kitware/VTK) >=7.0 is necessary)
* visualization of the point cloud from .csv file
```python
    from ILCC import utility
    utility.vis_csv_pcd(ind=1)
```
<div style="text-align: center">
<img src="readme_files/vis_csv.png" width = "50%" />
</div>

* visualization of the segmented results
```python
    from ILCC import utility
    utility.vis_segments(ind=1)
```
<div style="text-align: center">
<img src="readme_files/vis_seg.png" width = "50%" />
</div>

* visualization of the detected point cloud segment of the chessboard
```python
    from ILCC import utility
    utility.vis_segments_only_chessboard_color(ind=1)
```
<div style="text-align: center">
<img src="readme_files/vis_chessboard_only.png" width = "50%" />
</div>

* visualization of the detected point cloud segment of the chessboard and the estimated chessboard model
```python
    from ILCC import utility
    utility.vis_ested_pcd_corners(ind=1)
```
<div style="text-align: center">
<img src="readme_files/vis_est_marker.png" width = "50%" />
</div>

* visualization of all detected chessboards
```python
    import utility
    utility.vis_all_markers(utility.vis_all_markers(np.arange(1, 21).tolist())
```
<div style="text-align: center">
<img src="readme_files/all_frames_side.png" width = "60%" />
<img src="readme_files/all_frames_top.png" width = "65%" />
</div>

## To do list
1. uniformity check with chi-square test for chessboard detection
1. Integration for ROS
1. Add parameters for HDL-64 and VLP-16-PACK
